.\" manpage for the userspace (section 1) program 'twalk'
.\" vim: set tw=70
.TH TWALK 1 "2012-04-19" "twalk 0.0.1a" "User manual"
.SH NAME
twalk \- organise your music library by a specific pattern

.SH SYNOPSIS
twalk <mode> -p <pattern> [OPTIONS] <directory>

.SH DESCRIPTION
Twalk is a utility that enables you to set up a structure
inside your music 
.I directory 
the way you always wanted it to be.
.PP
It uses the
.B taglib
library and thus is capable of reading almost any type of tag that is
commonly used.
.PP
Additionally, twalk supports different operating
.I modes.
If you have set up your directory structure using mode
.I reorder
, you can then
.I rename
the music files the way you want them.
.PP
If you want to use rename mode - it is not yet implemented, sorry for
raising false hopes.

.SH OPTIONS
.IP mode
Either
.I reorder
or
.I rename
.IP "-p <pattern>"
Specify the pattern that is used to execute 
.I mode
.IP -s
Print a summary at the end of operation.
.IP -h
Display a help message
.IP -t
Show what would be done. VERY much output, consider redirecting to file
.IP -c
Clean up folders that are emptied during operation.
Slows execution down considerably due to calls to
.B sync(2).
As you probably not run twalk every day, it is worth the time.

.SH OPERATION MODES
.SS reorder
In reorder mode, twalk changes to the given
.I directory
and begins to walk the file tree. Every file's tags are read and
expanded in the 
.I pattern
given as argument.
For example, you have a pattern that says you want to have all songs
from one artist under one single directory, twalk will check whether
the song already lives inside
.I directory/artist
and if not, moves it there.

.SH PATTERN USAGE
twalk supports 3 different placeholders for the pattern:
.IP %a
the song's artist
.IP %r
the album or release the song appears on
.IP %t
the trackname
.PP
In
.B reorder mode
, twalk will read the tags of every file and decide if they are
sufficient for expanding the set pattern. If so, the pattern will be
expanded and if the file's location does not match the expanded
location, the file will be moved there. So, if you wanted to move every file in
.I dir/
into a directory structure
.B inside
.I dir/
like
.I $ARTIST/$RELEASE
, you'd execute twalk the following way (note the slash between %a and %r):
.RS
twalk reorder -p %a/%r
.I dir
.RE

.SH RETURN VALUES
.IP 0
Everything went well
.IP 1
Not enough parameters were passed. At the very least, twalk requires
.I mode, -p <pattern>
and a
.I directory
.IP 2
Wrong, or yet unsupported mode was passed.
.IP 3
The directory that was passed was not valid.
.IP 4
The pattern that was passed was not valid.

.SH BUGS
None found yet. If you do find one, please report it at github.com/n0stradamus/twalk
